# Human Movements Detection Using Smartphone Dataset
Smartphone are now embedded with sensors like accelerometer, gyroscope, magnetic sensors, GPS and vision sensors. Human activity data measurements are identified by using 3 axial accelerometer and gyroscope raw signals from wearable inertial sensor data. Activity-Based Computing captures the state of the user and its environment by taking the raw reading from various embedded sensors in order to provide raw data to our analyser system i.e computing resources. When the subject's body is get attached with these sensors, they permit continuous monitoring of numerous physiological signals. In this research, multiple behaviours were distinguished using sensor data. Useful information extract from the dataset, apply various classifiers to the chosen features and analyse their performance. For our experiments, we focus on six classes of human activity which are walking, walking upstairs, walking downstairs, sitting, standing, and laying. The four classifiers are used to reduce the dimensionality of the raw signal data that are extracted using the sensors and the most significant ones that can classify human activities. The algorithms such as KNN algorithm, Logistic Regression algorithm, Linear Discrimenent Analysis and Support Vector Machine are used to make the comparisions with the help of time and frequency parameters. This report discusses the classifiers used and comparison to seek the best performing one. We found that the SVM with linear kernel is able to provide more accurate analysis performance. Human Activity Recognition (HAR) plays a key role in monitoring activities of particular person of interest, the disabled and elders. Manually supervising human’s activity would be labourous and time-consuming. This research has drawn the attention of many researchers so as to analyse the activity using raw data with different machine learning algorithms for better living, to monitor health, forecasting and for medical diagnosis.